System Purpose
MediFlow is a web-based medical appointment scheduling application. It exposes a user-facing web UI and REST APIs and integrates with an external helpdesk system for support ticket ingestion. The system is designed to generate realistic operational and support scenarios rather than provide full production functionality.

Runtime Environment
The application runs as a single Quarkus-based JVM process.

Primary runtime:

Java 17

Quarkus 3.8.0 (reactive stack)

Default ports:

Web application: http://localhost:8083

External helpdesk ingestion endpoint: http://localhost:8080

The application can be started in development mode with hot reload or as a packaged runnable JAR.

Application Structure
MediFlow follows a monolithic architecture with clear internal separation between presentation, service, and integration layers.

The main layers are:

Web/UI layer (HTML forms and REST endpoints)

Domain services layer

External integration layer (HelpdeskClient)

There is no persistence layer. All application state is held in memory.

Web and API Layer
The web layer exposes both HTML-based endpoints and JSON-based REST endpoints.

HTML pages are rendered using Qute templates and handle user interactions such as booking appointments, viewing appointments, and submitting support requests.

REST endpoints are implemented using RESTEasy Reactive and support form-encoded and JSON requests.

Example user-facing endpoints include:

GET /appointments

POST /appointments/{id}/cancel

POST /billing/pay

POST /help

All endpoints assume a valid user context and do not enforce authentication or authorization at runtime.

Domain Services
Business logic is implemented in service classes.

SchedulingService:

Creates appointments

Cancels appointments

Reschedules appointments

Does not validate against real calendars

BillingService:

Simulates payment processing

Marks payment status

Does not integrate with real payment providers

AccountService:

Exposes basic account information

Handles password reset requests without real identity verification

These services operate purely in memory and do not use transactions.

Helpdesk Integration
All user support requests are forwarded to an external helpdesk system.

The forwarding logic is implemented in the HelpdeskClient component.

Outgoing request details:

Method: POST

URL: http://localhost:8080/api/intake/incoming-request

Content-Type: application/json

Payload includes userId and message

Example outgoing request:

curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/api/intake/incoming-request

-H "Content-Type: application/json"
-d '{ "userId": "u-charlie", "message": "I cannot cancel my appointment through the app." }'

The HelpdeskClient performs a best-effort delivery. If the external endpoint is unavailable, the error is logged and the user request continues without failure.

Failure Handling and Observability
The system is designed to remain responsive even when external dependencies fail.

If the helpdesk endpoint is unavailable:

The support request is logged locally

The user still receives a confirmation message

No retries are performed by default

The application relies on standard Quarkus logging for diagnostics. No distributed tracing or metrics collection is configured by default.

Configuration
Runtime configuration is managed via application.properties.

Typical configuration includes:

Server port

Helpdesk endpoint URL

Logging levels

No secrets management or credential storage is required, as no external systems require authentication.

Security Model
The application assumes a trusted environment.

There is no authentication, authorization, or session management implemented. All requests operate under a single logical user context.

Security-sensitive behavior such as billing, refunds, or account changes is constrained by business logic rather than technical enforcement.

All reports of potential security issues are expected to be handled operationally rather than through automated enforcement mechanisms.

Development and Testing Notes
The system is intentionally simplified to support demonstration and testing scenarios.

Common testing activities include:

Injecting failures in the helpdesk endpoint

Modifying UI behavior to simulate bugs

Observing how support tickets are generated and routed

The lack of persistence and authentication is intentional and should not be treated as a defect in this context.